README.md, before:

# Syllabus-Java022815
The detailed syllabus for the Java bootcamp launching Feb. 28th, 2015
		
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##Overview: 

Class description: According to the STLCC Workforce development group, the most sought-after specific skills among St. Louis tech jobs in 2014 were SQL, Oracle resources, and Java programming. Developers in the Java environment are the backbone of large corporations in St. Louis, and demand has never been higher for entry-level programmers.

Skills learned: Our 12-week course in Java will cover the basics of developing in industry-standard environments.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##Learning Objectives: 

###Knowledge:
* understand the purpose of classes and methods in object-oriented programming
* understand basics of aspect-oriented programming
* understand distinctions between primitive data types
* understand the purpose of arrays and their uses
* understand inheritance and polymorphism
* understand version control
* understand when and why exception handling should be used
* understand Entity Relationships
* understand how a database stores information
* understand the relationships between a database, the Java application, the web server, and the client browser
* understand how web applications are deployed using Java tools
* understand the MVC framework
* understand the current landscape of third-party tools and frameworks for Java applications
* understand unit and regression testing
* understand how to collaborate with others in a development environment

###Skills:
* use appropriate control flow techniques
* choose appropriate data types for variables
* use high-level principles to encapsulate code in classes and methods
* manage projects through version control in git and GitHub
* create and read Entity Relationship Diagrams
* query SQL database
* create web services using SOAP and RESTful techniques.
* use Eclipse IDE
* use basic HTML and CSS
* translate English instructions into Java code
* build off of large, pre-written codebases
* debug basic and intermediate issues in Java web applications
* test using JUnit
* build and deploy web applications using Spring, Hibernate, and Maven
* add authentication features to existing applications



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##Weekly Schedule: 

###Week 1:  Intro to programming with Java
+ setting up Eclipse IDE
+ version control with git and GitHub
+ variables and primitives
+ control statements
+ arrays
+ methods
+ basic I/O
+ regular expressions
+ typecast/generics
+ intro to Object-Oriented Programming principles

Project: Create a business expense script

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 2: Intermediate Java Principles
+ classes and objects
+ inheritance
+ polymorphism
+ exception handling
+ files and streams
+ manipulating collections

Project: Create a shopping cart application that includes abstraction

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 3: Unit testing with short scripts
+ unit testing with JUnit
+ regression testing

Project: create a test suite for a calculator application

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 4: Bean configuration
+ intro to Spring
+ dependency injection
+ bean factories
+ bean properties

Project: ?

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 5:  Wiring and SPEL
+ autowiring
+ annotation-based wiring
+ the Spring Expression Language

Project: ?

---------------------------------------------------- 


###Week 6: Database Modeling and Setup
+ entities, instances, attributes, and identifiers
+ identifying relationships
+ creating ERD diagrams
+ setting up MySQL
+ connecting to a database
+ SELECT statements

Project: Brainstorm web app ideas and design an appropriate database structure

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 7: SQL querying
+ the WHERE clause
+ INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE clauses
+ database joins

Project: Add database functionality to the store app from week 4

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 8: Building Web Applications with Spring
+ intro to HTML and CSS
+ Maven
+ the MVC framework for building web apps
+ accessing database objects from a web app

Project: ?

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 9: Web Forms
+ HTTP methods
+ accessing data from forms
+ form validation

Project: Create an inventory management system

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 10: Hibernate
+ ?
+ ?
+ ?

Project: Add database functionality to the store app from week 4

--------------------------------------------------


###Week 11: Security
+ security filters
+ authentication and authorization
+ login and security errors

Project: add authentication features to an existing project

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


###Week 12: Final Project

Project: each student chooses an individual project from a real-world business case, develops database-backed web application to solve issues presented in case

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Add Santosh's suggestions, Benford's Law project

README.md, after:

# Syllabus-Java022815
The detailed syllabus for the Java bootcamp launching Feb. 28th, 2015
		
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##Overview: 

Class description: According to the STLCC Workforce development group, the most sought-after specific skills among St. Louis tech jobs in 2014 were SQL, Oracle resources, and Java programming. Developers in the Java environment are the backbone of large corporations in St. Louis, and demand has never been higher for entry-level programmers.

Skills learned: Our 12-week course in Java will cover the basics of developing in industry-standard environments.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##Learning Objectives: 

###Knowledge:
* understand the purpose of classes and methods in object-oriented programming
* understand basics of aspect-oriented programming
* understand distinctions between primitive data types
* understand the purpose of arrays and their uses
* understand inheritance and polymorphism
* understand version control
* understand when and why exception handling should be used
* understand Entity Relationships
* understand how a database stores information
* understand the relationships between a database, the Java application, the web server, and the client browser
* understand how web applications are deployed using Java tools
* understand the MVC framework
* understand the current landscape of third-party tools and frameworks for Java applications
* understand unit and regression testing
* understand how to collaborate with others in a development environment

###Skills:
* use appropriate control flow techniques
* choose appropriate data types for variables
* use high-level principles to encapsulate code in classes and methods
* manage projects through version control in git and GitHub
* create and read Entity Relationship Diagrams
* query SQL database
* create web services using SOAP and RESTful techniques.
* use Eclipse IDE
* use basic HTML and CSS
* translate English instructions into Java code
* build off of large, pre-written codebases
* debug basic and intermediate issues in Java web applications
* test using JUnit
* build and deploy web applications using Spring, Hibernate, and Maven
* add authentication features to existing applications



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##Weekly Schedule: 

###Week 1:  Intro to programming with Java
+ setting up Eclipse IDE
+ version control with git and GitHub
+ variables and primitives
+ control statements
+ arrays
+ methods
+ basic I/O
+ regular expressions
+ typecast/generics
+ intro to Object-Oriented Programming principles

Project: Work through Benford's Law problem

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 2: Intermediate Java Principles
+ classes and objects
+ inheritance
+ polymorphism
+ exception handling
+ files and streams
+ manipulating collections

Project: Create a shopping cart application that includes abstraction

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 3: Unit testing with short scripts
+ unit testing with JUnit
+ regression testing

Project: create a test suite for a calculator application

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 4: Bean configuration
+ intro to Spring
+ dependency injection
+ bean factories
+ bean properties

Project: ?

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 5:  Wiring and SPEL
+ autowiring
+ annotation-based wiring
+ the Spring Expression Language

Project: ?

---------------------------------------------------- 


###Week 6: Database Modeling and Setup
+ entities, instances, attributes, and identifiers
+ identifying relationships
+ creating ERD diagrams
+ setting up MySQL
+ connecting to a database
+ SELECT statements

Project: Brainstorm web app ideas and design an appropriate database structure

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 7: SQL querying
+ the WHERE clause
+ INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE clauses
+ database joins

Project: Add database functionality to the store app from week 4

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 8: Building Web Applications with Spring
+ Aspect-Oriented programming principles
+ intro to HTML and CSS
+ Maven
+ the MVC framework for building web apps
+ accessing database objects from a web app

Project: ?

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 9: Web Forms and JSP
+ intro to JSP
+ HTTP methods
+ accessing data from forms
+ form validation

Project: Create an inventory management system

----------------------------------------------------


###Week 10: Hibernate and Unix
+ Unix shell scripts and UML
+ ?
+ ?

Project: Add database functionality to the store app from week 4

--------------------------------------------------


###Week 11: Security
+ security filters
+ servlets
+ authentication and authorization
+ login and security errors

Project: add authentication features to an existing project

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


###Week 12: Final Project

Project: each student chooses an individual project from a real-world business case, develops database-backed web application to solve issues presented in case

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
